In this demo I will show you
how to use the node-app-demo helm chart,
a chart I created myself to show you a little bit
how helm charts work.
I am in my helm directory.
And here I have a demo-chart
that I'm going to be using.
The helm chart basics come from helm create,
what I just showed you in the previous lecture.
I just adapted it a little bit
to show you a more complex example.
So what does that all change?
Let's have a look at the values.
I have a replicaCount of three.
I'm using an image that comes from my Docker Hub repository.
It's called node-demo-app,
which just spins up a simple node app.
I have it here.
I will just show you the index.js.
It connects to mysql and is then going
to create a table visits,
and every time you hit the endpoint it's going
to do an insert and then it's going to say hello world!
You are visitor number, something.
This is already version two.
Version one doesn't have this version back here.
What does it need?
It needs a mysql host, mysql user,
mysql password, and mysql database
to be able to function because it's using mysql.
Let's close this.
I'm going to use this image.
It's going to spin up the node app
and it requires environment variables
to be able to connect to mysql.
Going to use a v0.0.1.
I also have a v0.0.2.
The only difference is that the v0.0.2 shows v0.0.2
in the message when you connect it.
The pullPolicy is ifNotPresent.
I'm going to use a LoadBalancer type, on port 80.
You can change this into cluster IP
in a new port forwarding.
I find it easier to just spin up a LoadBalancer.
Ingress is disabled.
Resources, there's nothing in the resources.
And here I added the MariaDB chart configuration.
So I'm going to launch a MariaDB,
which is a version of mysql.
So MariaDB is going to provide me mysql server.
It's enabled.
No replication.
I want a database that is called app
and I want to contact it using the app-user.
On persistence, I'm going to use a volume of eight gigabytes
for my data.
If I'm going to use this MariaDB chart
I needed to find it somewhere,
and it's not in the requirements.yaml.
Here I have a dependency on mariadb on version 4.x.x.
Comes from kubernetes charts, repository,
condition mariadb.enabled.
So only get this chart if mariadb is enabled.
And we're going to take this using node-app-database.
Then we have templates.
In the templates the main difference is here
in the deployment.yaml.
This is all the same as the example.
Here I changed the containerPort
and then I added the environment variables.
So MYSQL_HOST, if mariadb is enabled
then I'm going to use template mariadb.fullname.
Let's have a look at our template again.
Template_helpers.tpl.
Mariadb.
So we define mariadb.fullname,
so it's going to be the release name dash and then mariadb.
It's going to be truncated to a 63
and I'm going to trim any suffix that is a dash.
So this means that we have the release name,
ReleaseName -mariadb is going to be
the service from mariadb,
so that's what we need for our host.
That will be to MYSQL_HOST.
MYSQL_USER is gonna come from values,
Values.mariadb.db.user.
And for database values, mariadb.db.name.
So this comes from the values.
Comes from right here.
And then the password.
When the mariadb dependency is spun up
it will have a secret,
and the secret will have the same name as the service
or as deployment, it will just have
the release name -mariadb.
So that's the secret that we are going to look for.
The key in a secret is going to be mariadb-password.
Once I install this chart I will do a kubectl get secrets
so that you see this when it's working.
But then it gets the MYSQL_PASSWORD from the secret.
Then we have livnessProbe and a readinessProbe
to this default.
So there will be a health check always hitting this URL
so then our counter will definitely
increase by itself over time.
So that's a good test that we can do.
So that's it for this chart.
Let's install this chart so I'm going to do,
I have the commands in my README.md.
Before we can install it we need a dependency.
And dependencies will be saved in charts.
So chart is empty.
So let's download our dependency, helm dependency update.
We'll get our dependency.
So now I have mariadb-4.3.1 in my dependencies,
so now I can install this chart.
Helm install of this directory
is going to install this chart.
State is deployed.
The name is bumptious-fly.
I have a service, a deployment,
a StatefulSet for my mariadb.
A pod, I have three pods for my Node.js app
and one pod for me mariadb.
I have the secret here,
my user and my root password will be here.
And I have multiple ConfigMaps.
So let's have a look at the secrets.
Kubectle get secret
as -o yaml and we get the mariadb-password
and the mariadb-root-password.
So these are what the app is going to use.
You have to base64 decode it.
So I'm going to do base64 decode
and this is in the password right here.
This is autoprovision,
so we don't really need to do something.
Once the secret has been created
then the pods will see that it has been created.
It takes some time and if you restart to wait
for this mariadb we could also use a script here somewhere
to wait for the mariadb to be up so the app doesn't crash.
But I haven't added that.
It's a very simple app.
So we'll just crash until mariadb is up.
Now I waited a few minutes.
It needed four restarts to then see
that the mariadb is running.
So let's have a look at the logs.
Kubectl get,
kubectl logs of this pod.
Example app running.
Let's have a look at service -o wide.
It'll give us the full host name.
This is the full host name that we can contact the app on.
We will have to wait a little bit
for the health checks to complete.
Once the health check complete we see hello world!
You are visitor number 45.
So we also have the health checks running
so this counter will increase.
So we have our pods, we have three pods.
Those three pods are connected to mariadb
and do an inserts every time I hit this app.
So this is all working.
It's all very nicely working
just by running helm install.
So helm install installed mariadb and our app.
But of course once you deploy an app
you're gonna have upgrades, you're gonna have
changes to your app and you want to deploy those changes.
With helm you can do upgrades as well.
And you can use helm upgrade for that.
I have another version of this app.
Let's have a look at values.yaml.
I'm using tag v0.0.1,
and I have tag 0.0.2.
So let's upgrade, let's upgrade to 0.0.2.
The command to do that I have in my README.md.
There is still a bug open with this mariadb chart.
If you do an upgrade and you have mariadb as a dependency
and you use random passwords
then it will create a new random password.
So it's best that when you do an upgrade
you need to specify the password
or you just don't use random passwords.
Random passwords are easy because they aren't as secret.
But you can also define a secret yourself,
put a password in there or use this set
when you do the install,
to make sure that the password doesn't change.
I'm sure they will fix this in the future.
But for now we just have to mask the password.
So helm upgrade, I'm going to upgrade to v0.0.2.
And the mariadb password for my app is I got it here.
This is the password.
The release is bumptious-fly,
and the chart is in my current directory,
so I will just use dot.
So now it started to upgrade.
One new pod is creating.
Let's have a look, kubectl get pods.
The new pod is running.
It's not ready yet.
This one is ready.
So once the new pods are created
it will terminate the old ones.
You see now, it started terminating the old pods.
Now we have three pods running.
The new version and one old pod.
So let's have a look using our curl command.
Hello World v0.0.2 is now running.
You are visitor number 179.
So now we are running v0.0.2.
But I don't really like this version,
so I would like to rollback.
So we can also rollback with helm.
So helm rollback, let's use help.
What does it say?
First use helm history to know
what versions we have released.
We have two revisions.
One doesn't exist anymore.
One is deployed now.
This is the chart version.
Let's rollback to our previous version.
So helm rollback bumptious-fly revision one.
What's gonna happen now?
It's gonna spin up a new pod,
and the version of this pod will be
the previous version again.
So then we will switch to the previous version again.
It will take some time for this pod to spin up again.
Once this is spun up then you see the old ones terminating.
Once all the old ones are terminated
then we will be running on our old version again.
All the old ones are gone.
These are all new ones.
Let's run curl.
Hello World! My v0.0.2 is gone.
You're visitor number 247.
So the mariadb is still running,
but my other pods have been changed
back into the older version.
So that's it.
You can definitely see that helm provides you
a very nice tool set to package and deploy your applications
on kubernetes.
I'll just clean up now.
If I do a helm list I see my deployment
and I'll just delete bumptious-fly.
If you want to delete everything
you can also add --purge and it will delete
really everything and all the configuration.
This will take some time.
And now it is deleted.
The pods are gone.
But the data is still there because this mariadb
uses stateful set and when a stateful set is deleted,
then it will not delete the volumes as a safety mechanism.
If you do helm list,
it will not list anything anymore.
If you do helm list all we see that we have,
bumptious-fly in the deleted status.
If we do a helm delete bumptious-fly --purge
then this will also be gone done from here.
And if you then do the helm list --all
then it's completely gone.
We might want to delete one of these volumes.
You will only have one.
I have more because I spun up autotests,
but you will have this bumptious-fly here
or whatever the name of your release is.
And you might want to delete this one as well
after you did the demo.
So try out this demo, definitely,
and if you have your old app you can also package it
using helm and then deploy it just like I did here.